>> Steve Kinney: So what I would like you
to do is that we've switched back over.
I'm using Visual Studio Code,
you might be using a different one,
but we'll actually take
a look at it on mine.
And if I type led,
you can see that there's a whole bunch
of different methods that I called.
There was blink, brightness,
which will basically allow you to
set it somewhere along the lines.
Fun fact, most of these
are not gonna work right now,
we'll get into that in a second.
But we can fade it, and these are all just
utility methods given
to us by Johnny-Five.
So you have a whole bunch of other ones,
a strobe seems like it's really cool.
It is an alias for blink, so
if you're really excited about that one,
it's gonna be the same thing.
But there's a bunch of really cool ones.
What I'm really interested
in is fading and pulsing.
Right, fade is a one direction,
it'll go from off and fade to on.
And then for pulsing,
it's effectively the same thing as blink.
It's fade to on, fade to off,
fade to on, fade to off.
And you can give it amount of time.
So we're actually going
to do that instead.
So instead of blink, we'll say pulse.
I'm gonna save it, and
I'm gonna go ahead and run this code.
I'll kill the previous instance,
if I didn't already.
And I will run and I will deploy it, and
we will all see what's about to happen.
So if you look at the board,
my code is deployed.
There's two things to see.
One, is there is no pulsing.
Two, as I switched back to my computer,
they crashed.
And the error message is
0 is not a valid PWM pin.
Right, so that gives us a sense,
I kind of hinted before if we go ahead and
look at that very helpful
chart that I showed earlier.
That error message is accurate,
our PWM pins are five and
six on either the a port or the b port.
So, not zero, so when it said it's not
a PWM pin, a helpful error message.
Or at least an accurate error message,
right?
So the big question is what is PWM,
and why for
pulsing does it need to be a PWM pin?
The problem with programming
hardware digitally is, again,
digital devices are ones and zeros,
right, which is you're on or you're off.
And that worked great for
blinking, not so good for
pulsing, where we're gradually
going from zero to one.
And if that's not a thing
that we can do digitally,
is this just a dead end
that I have led you down?
Or is there a solution
in that error message?
Which is where it said 0 is not a PWM pin,
it seems like the solution might
be plug it into a PWM pin.
We know that they're five and six.
So it's very gratifying, but
can we make it fade in and out?
Ones and zeroes, it's hard.
So PWM, I've been purposely
cagey about what it stood for
until now because I feel like that
would begin to give away the answer.
It's pulse width modulation.
And so it's basically the way that we
can fake somewhere between zero and
one, when we only have zeroes and ones.
So how do we fake it?
We just alternate real fast.
If you alternate real fast
between zero and one,
the analog devices will kind of treat
it as somewhere between zero and one.
So not every pin on our board supports it,
so
we need to use a pin that does support it.
Now that's fine and good, but
it leads us to our next problem.
Our next problem is pin five and six,
is very far away from that ground pin.
[LAUGH] And, I mean if you really
tried you could probably reach,
but seems like that's not
a long term solution.
So we're gonna need to bring in another
piece of equipment called the breadboard.
And I'm gonna take a quick moment to
explain to how a breadboard works.
And then we'll be using a breadboard
pretty much for the rest of the day.